review README (#41)
hdr-bgnn/Morphology-analysis: README.md

# Morphology-analysis

> The primary goal of this repository is to produce a presence table (default), create landmarks (optional), visualize landmarks (otpional, and extract measurements (optional) from a segmented fish image produced by M. Maruf (see [BGNN-trait-segmentation](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary goal of this repository is to produce a presence table (default), create landmarks (optional), visualize landmarks (optional), and extract measurements (optional) from a segmented fish image (see [BGNN-trait-segmentation](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation)).
```

Secondarily, this repository provides a framework for creating modularized tools by using classes.

Finally, this repository also provides a way to visualize outputs of the tools and test functionalities using a jupyter notebook. 

> This repository is automatically containerized when a new release is published. This allows for easy integration into the [BGNN_Snakemake](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN_Snakemake).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Docker container image of this codebase and its dependencies is automatically built and published each time a new release is published. The Docker container isolates dependencies and facilitates reproducible and version-tagged integration into Imageomics workflows (see for example the [BGNN core workflow](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN_Snakemake)).
```

> This tool can me made more generalizable, but was originally developed for the [Minnows Project](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/Minnow_Segmented_Traits).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tool was originally developed for the [Minnows Project](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/Minnow_Segmented_Traits).
```

## 1- Input: Segmented Image

> The input is the output of the segmentation model, which is a file named basename_segmented.png, where "basename" is the file name for the original image. The segmentation model uses [M. Maruf's segmentation code](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation/blob/main/Segment_mini/scripts/segmentation_main.py) and is based on a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN; more specifically unet). More information can be found on the [BGNN-trait-segmentation repository](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input is the output of the segmentation model, which is a file named basename_segmented.png, where "basename" is the file name for the original image. The segmentation model is based on a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN; more specifically unet). More information can be found In the [BGNN-trait-segmentation repository](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation), in particular see the [segmentation code there](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation/blob/main/Segment_mini/scripts/segmentation_main.py).
```

> The segmented image looks like image below, with traits color-coded and visualized by "blobs".  There are 11 trait classes corresponding to the annotated traits. Here, only 9 are used (alt_fin_ray and caudal_fin_ray are excluded).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A segmented image looks like the image below, with traits color-coded and visualized by "blobs".  There are 11 trait classes corresponding to the annotated traits. Here, only 9 are used (alt_fin_ray and caudal_fin_ray are excluded).
```

* 'trunk': [0, 124, 124]

## 2- Default Tool: Presence

> The input of the presence class, or tool, is a semgemented image named "basename_segmented.png" generated by [Virginia Tech](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input of the presence tool, is a segmented image named "basename_segmented.png" (as generated by the [BGNN-trait-segmentation](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/BGNN-trait-segmentation) code).
```

The output of the presence tool is a presence table named "basename_presence.json" for each image.

To check for the presence of traits, the tool:

  1. Isolates an individual trait (e.g., isolates the dorsal_fin)
  2. Counts the number of blobs for that trait

>   3. Calculates the percentage of the area of the largest blob as a proportion of the area of the total blobs for that trait

Reviewer: So if there's only one blob for a trait, the result is automatically 100%? Or is this meant to say something different?

Reviewer 2: this is correct, if only one blob <=> 100%

Reviewer 3: I added an example. I can add it as an example output if that's better.

## 3- Optional Tools: Landmark, Visualize, Metadata, and Measure

> The input for the measure tool is a metadata file named "basename_metadata.json" generated by [Drexel](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/drexel_metadata/tree/Thibault/gen_metadata_mini).

Reviewer: So this refers to a branch in the drexel_metadata repository, which is almost certainly not what we want to do. Hence, the correct (in the sense of more canonical) answer is presumably different?

Reviewer 3: I put in the link to just the repo. Sorry about that!

To create landmarks, visualizations, and extract measurements, the tool:

  1. Isolates an individual trait (e.g., isolates the dorsal_fin)

>   2. Removes any small blobs of a trait and fills in gaps between blobs of a trait

Reviewer: This is a little confusing. Are the gaps only filled in between "major" blobs of a trait, and what decides which blurb of a trait is a small one that gets removed, and which blurb is instead not only kept but also has the "gap" filled in?

Reviewer 2: precision which is explained in the code itself and can be understand better using the jupyter notebook by exploring/playing the different functions of the class... 
blob means detach entity, so 2 blobs means to distinct islands (clusters) of pixel.  For "gap" in the description of the code I believe I use the term "hole" which means if you have a blob that present a hole inside (cluster of False pixel or 0 pixel inside the cluster of True pixel), typically the "head" cluster will have a hole corresponding to the eye.

Reviewer 3: I tried to clarify

  16 |  Dorsal-most (upper) part of eye)  |  Top-most point of the eye mask defined by top boundary of the bbox  
  17 |  Ventral-most (lower) part of eye  |  Furthest bottom point of the eye mask defined by bottom boundary of the bbox  
  18 |  Center (centroid) of eye  |  Center of the eye mask  

### Visualize

This tool saves the segmented fish image with landmarks. 

Here is an [example](Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742_image_lm.png) of a visualization of the landmarks on the segmented image.

### Metadata

> This is an input file. The file should be generated by [drexel](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/drexel_metadata/tree/Thibault/gen_metadata_mini) and named basename_metadata.json.

Reviewer: Again, we are referring to a branch in a repository, almost certainly not what we want to do. Presumably there's a better (more canonical) reference?

Reviewer 3: Changed

> This file contains information about the rule and scale (pixels per cm) to be used for the **Measure** tool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains information about the ruler and scale (pixels per cm) in the image, to be used by the **Measure** tool. 
```

> The scale function within this tool outputs if a ruler is found, the scale in pixels, and the unit (cm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scale function within this tool outputs the scale in pixels, and the unit (cm), provided a ruler is found,
```

Reviewer: Makes me wonder what it does if a ruler is not found.

Reviewer 3: I added information about that

  distance  |  eye diameter using landmarks  |  ED_bbox  |  length across the eye along the anterior-posterior (left-right) axis (distance between the left-right sides of a bounding box around the eye)  
  angle  |  fish angle using landmarks  |  Fa_lm  |  angle of the tilt of the fish from horizontal (angle between the SL_lm and and the horizontal line of the image)  
  angle  |  fish angle using PCA  |  Fa_pca  |  angle of the tilt of the fish from horizontal (angle between the pca through the midline of the fish mask and the horizontal line of the image)  

  
#### Method of Measurement Extraction

> Each method of measurement extracted is a separate class, which adds more flexibility. These are described in [Trait_class](Scripts/Traits_class.py)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each method of measurement extraction is in a separate Python class. These are described in [Trait_class](Scripts/Traits_class.py)
```

Since the functions are modular, the method for extracting measurements can be specified:

_landmarks_

> These measurement trait classes functions have the suffix *"_lm"* to denote the method of extraction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These trait measurement class functions have the suffix *"_lm"* to denote the method of extraction. 
```

The lengths (in pixels) are calculated as the distance between two landmarks (described in the "Definition" column of the trait description csv).

_bounding box (bbox)_

> These trait classes functions have the suffix *"_bbox"* to denote the method of extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These trait class functions have the suffix *"_bbox"* to denote the method of extraction.
```

The lengths (in pixels) are calculated as the distance of a perpendicular line between the edges (either vertical or horizontal) of the bounding box (bbox).

#### Areas

> Areas are calculated as the total pixels in the mask of a trait (e.g., head area is the area of the mask of the head). These are described in the "Definition" column of the [Minnow_Measurements_v1.csv](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/Morphology-analysis/blob/main/Traits_description/Minnow_Measurements_v1.csv).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Areas are calculated as the total pixels in the mask of a trait (e.g., head area is the area of the mask of the head). These are described in the "Definition" column of [Minnow_Measurements_v1.csv](Traits_description/Minnow_Measurements_v1.csv).
```

_mask_

These trait classes have the suffix *"_m"* to denote the method of extraction.

## 4- Usage

By default Morphology_main.py outputs a presence table. Creating landmarks, visualizing landmarks, and measurement tables are optional outputs. 

The inputs for the tools are:

* segmented image: filename_segmented.png (**required**)
* Metadata: basename_metadata.json (*optional*)

The outputs for the tools are:

* Presence: basename_presence.json (**required**)
* Landmark: basename_landmark.json (*optional*)
* Visualize: basename_lm_image.png (*optional*)
* Measure: basename_morphology.json (*optional*)

> The main arguments to run this repository are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main arguments for running `Morphology_main.py` are:
```

```
Morphology_main.py input_image output_presence 
```

To add optional tools, simply add one or all of the following, where "--" denotes the tool and the second term is the output file:

*landmark*
```
--landmark LANDMARK.json
```

*visualize*
```
--visualize VISUALIZE.png
```

*measure*
```
--measure  MEASURE.json
```

> Here is an example using [Test_Data](https://github.com/hdr-bgnn/Morphology-analysis/Test_Data): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example using [test data](Test_Data): 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

cd Morphology-analysis/
./Script/Morphology_main.py --metadata Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742.json --morphology Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742_measure.json --landmark Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742_landmark.json --lm_image Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742_image_lm.png Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742_segmented.png Test_Data/INHS_FISH_000742_presence.json
```

If no arguments are given, an error message will say "missing two positional arguments", which are the input file and the output file. Use "-h" to pull up the help file with the full list of arguments. 

> ## 5- Version control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5- Automatic Docker container build and version tags
```

> The repository is containerized each release and is stored on the GitHub registry. The containerized version is called to run the main script, [Morphology_main.py](Scripts/Morphology_main.py). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon publishing a new release, a Docker container image is automatically built from the release and published on the GitHub container and package registry. The published image is tagged with major, major.minor, and major.minor.patch versions corresponding to the release.
```

> The workflow to build the container is defined [here](.github/workflows/Deploy_Morpholgy.yml).   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow  to build the container is defined as a GitHub action [here](.github/workflows/Deploy_Morpholgy.yml).   
```

The Dockerfile definition is [here](Dockerfile).

> Pull the latest image: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull the latest image (in an HPC environment, docker is typically not supported but singularity is): 
```

```
docker pull ghcr.io/hdr-bgnn/morphology-analysis/morphology:latest 
#singularity pull docker://ghcr.io/hdr-bgnn/morphology-analysis/morphology:latest
```

> Run the container: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the container (assuming an HPC environment that supports singularity but not docker): 
```
